Recently, there have been many studies about artificial intelligence and bioinformatics. One such approach is using machine learning to determine whether to extract a tooth or not based on the cephalometric parameters. Different orthodontists can have markedly different plans for a specific case.
  Considerable variety can occur particularly in the decision of whether to extract a tooth or not and which tooth to extract. In an orthodontic diagnosis, orthodontists are required to make a comprehensive diagnosis of the patient by evaluating multiple parts of the face from different perspective rather than targeting the oral and maxillofacial region. Therefore, there is a need to automate the diagnostic imaging to improve evaluation speed and accuracy. 
  Keys for the successful orthodontic treatment are an accurate diagnosis and well planned treatment protocols. An important part of treatment planning is the decision about extractions and the teeth to be extracted, because extractions are irreversible. Generally, most orthodontists make a decision with data from the clinical evaluation, photographs, dental models and radiographs based on their experience and knowledge. This often causes interclinician and intraclinician variability in the treatment planning process. Different records used for the diagnosis can cause differences in the treatment plan. 
  Differences in extraction decisions could be critical. Artificial intelligence (AI) based automated systems can be of great use for clinical decision-making, and can be used as an auxiliary support for especially those who are having a lesser clinical experience. To date, the decision to extract the teeth is not formalized and standardized, and depends upon the practitioner's heuristics. A wrong decision can lead to undesirable results. 
  So, the objective of this study is to obtain a proper idea about a case, whether it should go for extraction or not, if yes, what type of extraction should it go for to avoid complicating the case or causing loss to the patient.
